# Technology

Our group have realized this application through the use of the following tecnologies:

* **Couchbase NoSQL database:** Since the commision of the work aims to store a large and complex questionnaire for each patient adhering to the supervision programme of the melanoma cancer, we tried to find a database that was able to store a large amount of data whithout significantly changing the structure of the questionnaire itself. Couchbase is a Documental NoSQL database whose datastructure is not composed by columns and rows as in the relational one, but documents are stored in the database in *JASON* format, that is a simple, lightweight notation, compact and human readable. In Couchbase, a document usually represents a single instance of an object in the application code and each document can contain nested structures (sub-documents). This allows developers to naturally express many-to-many relationships without requiring a "reference table" or "junction table". So in this database we can store the entire questionnaire and all its sub-sections in an easy way and as naturally as possible. Morevover, the nested structure  comes in handy when a certain degree of kinship is sought.  
Morover, Couchbase offers the possibility to make the application a distrbuited one: because of Couchbase’s architecture, an application can be developed at small scale, but then deployed to a distributed cluster, or separate clusters of varied topologies, without any architecture or behavioral changes to that application. This feature seemed to us to be very advantageous for a future distributed deployment of the application, as it emerged from the commitent document that this study was carried out in collaboration between three countries: Italy, Greece and Spain with the possibility of extension to other countries. In addition, each country has a network of centres where the collection of questionnaires is made, which could in turn be distributed in the country.  
The last feature that made us decide to adopt this technology is its query lenguage: *N1QL* (pronounced “*nickel*”) is Couchbase’s next-generation query language. N1QL aims to meet the query needs of distributed document-oriented databases. It is very similar to SQL. N1QL gives application developers an expressive, powerful, and complete declarative language with industry standard ANSI joins for querying, transforming, and manipulating JSON data – just like SQL. Also the structure of how a query should be written is totally similar to SQL, with the only different in how to access to data.

* **Spring Data Cauchbase:** Spring Data for Couchbase is part of the umbrella Spring Data project which aims to provide a familiar and consistent Spring-based programming model for new datastores while retaining store-specific features and capabilities. The Spring Data Couchbase project provides integration with the Couchbase Server database. Key functional areas of Spring Data Couchbase are a POJO centric model for interacting with Couchbase Buckets and easily writing a Repository style data access layer [1]. It has been choosed to use this framework because of the  many features provided (configuration support using Java based *Configuration* classes or an XML namespace for the Couchbase driver, *CouchbaseTemplate* helper class that increases productivity performing common Couchbase operations, annotation based mapping metadata but extensible to support other metadata formats, automatic implementation of *Repository* interfaces including support for custom finder methods... ) and because already known and used before by the components of the group.

